sixty-five on this side
on this side
why
robot
look right up in here you can see all
the rubbers kind of squeezed out on the
right on the left so this control arm
needs to be replaced of course first
thing you have to do is take the wheel
off and then when you come up in here
you can see the control arm and there's
a rubber flap
they call that an inner inner fender
splashguard
push that back and you can see the two
ends of the control arm first thing to
do is loosen the nut on the right side
and the left side of the control arm
don't take them off just loosen them and
the next thing is to loosen the nut from
the ball joint
next thing is use your pickle fork I
break the ball joint loose sometimes you
have to heat it a few times your ball
joint is ought to pop right out of the
spindle like that in order to get the
nuts off the inside of the control arm
it's best if you use like a long
extension with an 18 swivel socket and
your air gun when you come from
underneath the long extension you get on
the back of the control arm bolts on the
inside bolt on this side because where
it's at and the starter you can't use an
extension just use a stubby 18 wrench
and you can break it loose there if you
don't look look first or if you don't
realize it there are some spacers back
there which will show you there's either
three four or five on each side count
them when you take them out and put the
same amount back
spacers are just little you spacers
again they'll be two or three or four on
each one depending on how it was a line
take four out from the front foot four
back that point then you're ready to
just pop the control arm out of there
right here's where those spacers go if
you're not thinking about it when you go
pulling this control arm off those
spacers will fly around and flop off and
you won't know how many were at each one
this one had two in front of the front
and four in from the back
so put them back in the same sequence
that you took them out on this control
arm you can see why we're changing
they're right here pushing shot on there
now a word about these control arms you
can get them mixed up
the right can fit on the left they will
actually bolt up you won't know anything
till you go to drive this thing and it
won't steer right but the difference is
on these control arms you'll see on the
backside it's kind of curved and on the
front it's straight so the straight side
goes to the front if you reverse these
they look like I said they will bolt up
but it will still steer crazy so again
the front side is the straight side
these control arms do not come with a
rubber bumper already installed so you
need to install one usually if you
squirt it down with some type of a Lube
first
using channel locks and pull it up
through
usually if you try and use the old
rubber bumper it just will tear when it
comes out so get another rubber new
rubber bumper huibin put your grease
eart and the top of ball joint okay
here's a little tip that will save you
time trying to get this thing installed
again put it in a vise and just loosen
those outer bolts nuts
don't take them completely off
that way when you go to install this
it'll go in position and then it should
rock up and down free like that makes it
much easier to install it take the
control arm slide it back in place the
two studs are up there that will mount
to
we have to jock it around a little bit
to get it in place and then you need to
take your spacers and put them back
there's another thing you'll save you a
little bit of time sometimes in spacers
we'll all just be they'll fall apart and
fall out of there when you're trying to
put them together you take just a little
grease and layer the grease in between
each of the spacers then they'll stay
together when you put them in place
and then you put your nuts on okay at
this point we're going to have to raise
this spindle up to get it back on the
ball joint if you have a lift like we do
you can use a jacks and if you don't
have a lift you can do the same thing
with a floor jack it makes it much
easier to be able to raise this up guide
the ball joint writing Oh
Jack it up high enough the ball junk
should stick down into the spindle you
can put your nut on
your tie need to insert our pin
now we took this over to the vise and
loosen these nuts be sure and tighten
them down now
front nice and use your stubby wrench
and tighten down the back nuts
pull the inner fender skirt flat back
out grease your joint then you're ready
for the wheel and that is how it's done